DHMN Bylaws
ARTICLE I — NAME AND PURPOSE
Section 1 - Name
The name of the organization shall be Distributed Hacker/Maker Network, a.k.a. DHMN,[a][b][c][d][e] and it shall be a nonprofit organization incorporated under the laws of the State of Wisconsin.
Section 2 - Purpose
DHMN is organized for charitable, scientific and education purposes. 


The primary purpose of DHMN is to empower and ensure the survival of the thriving community that meets in the brick and mortar building located at 120 N. Morrison Street in Appleton, Wisconsin.  This location is called “The Appleton Makerspace, powered by DHMN”.  The Appleton Makerspace is a community workshop with a health-club membership model.  We are a cross of machine shop, electronics manufacturer, programmers co-op and art studio, but with mentors, classes and personal project space.[f]


In addition to exploring the benefits of productivity through volunteer collaboration, the DHMN’s primary objectives are to create, educate, share and learn by creating a sustainable, collaborate, open-source network between all makerspaces around the world.[g][h][i]


Section 3 - Scope[j][k][l][m][n][o]
ARTICLE II — Members
Section 1 - Eligibility
Section 1.1 - Membership
Regular mMembers must have two signatures from members on a completed membership application and be current on their DHMN dues payment.


Limited members must be current on their DHMN dues payments.[p]
Section 1.2 - Officers
A member is eligible for an Officer position if they have remained an active Regular member for at least 3 consecutive months preceding the election.  
Section 1.2.1 Officer Positions
1. President
2. Vice President (see note in Article II, Section 2.2.4)
3. Treasurer
4. Secretary
5. Chief Technology Officer
6. Community Liaison 
Section 1.3 - General Public (non-voting participant)
Any member of the general public may participate in DHMN events and meetings that have been designated for public participation, but they may not vote at organizational meetings.
Section 2 – Rights and Responsibilities of Members
Section 2.1 - Regular Members and Limited Members[q]


The DHMN consists of two types of members: Regular members and Limited members.


Regular members pay higher monthly dues for unlimited access to DHMN’s physical space.


Limited members who are current in their dues shall have access to the DHMN’s space when a Regular member is at the space.


The DHMN also recognizes the rights of Regular and Limited members to vote in all elections opened to members. The DHMN requires members to pay monthly dues. Members must also follow all rules set by the board pertaining to the DHMN’s facilities.
Section 2.2 - DHMN Officers
Officers of the DHMN shall be selected by a vote of Regular and Limited members. Board officers may also lead a committee which fulfills the duties of the office.


An absent officer designates their official representative[r][s], following the order of succession, i.e. President, VP, Treasurer, Secretary, C.T.O., Community Liaison.
Section 2.2.1 - President
The President’s responsibilities shall be:
* The official representative of the DHMN organization
* Create referendums to keep the DHMN organization relevant and solvent
* Create referendums for the DHMN campaigns and general policy
* Can sign binding DHMN contracts and legal documents if approved by a referendum
* Delegate duties at their discretion
* Perform all actions assigned to them by referendums
* Preside over official meetings 
* Appoint members in needed official roles until the next meeting, where the appointment will be held for a vote.
Section 2.2.2 - Secretary
The Secretary shall be responsible for keeping records of the DHMN meetings, including sending out meeting announcements, and assuring that the DHMN official records are maintained.  Coordinate the addition of content to the main DHMN website (while Community Liaison coordinates DHMN website updates such as event info, press releases and typical PR materials).
Section 2.2.3 - Treasurer
The Treasurer shall have custody of, and be held accountable for, all funds and assets of the DHMN, receive and give receipts for all monetary transactions of the DHMN, maintain records of all transactions, and deposit all such monies in the name of the DHMN. The treasurer shall publish a monthly and annual financial report.  Any transaction larger than 10% of monthly revenue shall require a board vote.


Section 2.2.4 - Vice-President  (Inactive)
Traditional role is to supplement the role of the President, but is not necessary for DHMN.  However, we would consider activating this position in order to fulfill 501c3 Non-profit organization requirements.
Also serves as Facilities Manager of the Appleton Makerspace.  Determines acceptance or denial of donated materials such as furniture or equipment (up to a threshold that has yet to be determined).  Of the community material available to the makerspace, nothing comes in or goes out of the space without the approval of the VP/Facilities Manager.


Section 2.2.5 - Chief Technology Officer
The Chief Technology Officer shall be the arbiter of official direction when a conflict in technological methods arises (e.g. the case of conflicting wifi access points set up during an official function).


The Chief Technology Officer shall oversee the registration/administration of group-controlled resources and maintain a list of resources already established by other members, that they may be contacted in the event of issues.


Section 2.2.6 - Community Liaison
Responsible for official communications outside of the DHMN (i.e. press inquiries, Twitter, calendar updates, website updates, Facebook, answer calls).    The community liaison also is the de facto lead for member events, new member initiatives, and welcoming new members.[t]


Section 2.3 - Makerships (“Sweat Equity” members)[u]
Section 3 - Resignation and Expulsion
Section 3.1 - Regular and Limited Members
Regular and Limited members may be expelled from the DHMN by proposal and vote of the DHMN board of officers[v] if the members fail to observe the member responsibilities as defined in writing by the board.


A member may be abruptly terminated without warning if they commit a criminal act upon person or property while on the DHMN’s premises or at the DHMN’s functions.
Section 3.2 - Board Members
A member may submit a proposal to cast a re-vote for one or more given officer positions during the elected officers’ terms. If this proposal is struck down by the Board of Directors, a petition signed by one fourth of current members will overturn this decision and invoke a public election for the given board positions.
Section 3.3 - Inactivity
A member is deemed inactive if he or she fails to pay their dues on time and shall forfeit membership after three consecutive months of dues non-payment. A member with less than three consecutive dues non-payment will be reinstated to active status upon payment of owed dues.
ARTICLE III – Voting
Section 1 - Proposals
Written proposals must be submitted to a board member for sponsorship. If sponsored, a proposal must be made publicly available for review, with members being sent a link to or copy of the proposal via the DHMN mailing list, for no less than three days before the proposal may be voted on. Proposals shall be voted upon by the board of directors. The methods for determining the result of proposal vote are as follows:
1. A quorum for board meetings shall be three board members participating (in person or remotely) in the meeting.
2. Majority of “Yea” votes will cause vote to pass.
3. A proposal vote can only be re-proposed once. A second vote resulting in a majority of "Nay" will cause a proposal to permanently fail.
4. In the event of a tie vote, the proposal fails.
5. The President may vote and may sponsor proposals.


Section 2 - Board of Directors[w]
The Board of Directors, a.k.a. board, a.k.a. board of officers, is defined as all current elected officers of the DHMN.  


Section 3 - Elections for the Officers:
Elections shall occur annually at dates determined by the sitting Officers and shall be open to all active members[x] and be communicated via the DHMN mailing list.  Each voter shall vote “Yea” or “Nay” for each candidate. The candidate with the most "Yea" votes is elected. Tie votes shall require a run-off vote. When the election results are confirmed and announced, the Officer seats are vacated and assumed by the newly elected members[y].


Article IV – Revisions to These Bylaws
Section 1 – Revisions
Proposed revisions must be submitted to the Secretary to be sent out with regular board announcements. These bylaws may only be changed by a unanimous decision by the sitting board of directors.[z]
Article V – Dissolution of the Organization
Section 1 – Dissolution
The DHMN may not dissolve less than 30 days from the time a proposal to dissolve passes.
Section 2 – Asset Distribution
In the event that a movement to dissolve the DHMN passes, assets may be liquidized to pay off any debt the organization may have accrued. Any remaining assets of the DHMN must be donated to an IRS 501c3 compliant charitable, educational, or scientific endeavor.






[aa]
[a]Shall it be DHMN forever?  I could see this name changed to "Appleton Makerspace, powered by DHMN" without many changes to the day to day operation of the mailing list, website, or makerspace.  We need to define who we are, and whether we exist as one or multiple organizations.
[b]We exist now as one organization, and I recommend DHMN stay as it is.  I recommend The Appleton Makerspace can become it's own org when we can afford to put time into maintaining the overhead of two different orgs.  In the mean time, I recommend AMpbDHMN is an office location of DHMN.
[c]Do we really have the time and resources to maintain two organizations at this point?  It doesn't seem like organizational skills are the group's forte, and creating two organizations could create additional demands for the leadership at a time when many things require their attention.
[d]Not sure these comments are doing the job of communicating that we need - I'm suggesting that we _don't_ have two orgs - just 1 org (DHMN) and it's current physical office location (Appleton Makerspace)
[e]Fair enough.  I think we agree on that.
[f]Copied from EQL's elevator speech on the Trello boards.
[g]There is NOTHING in here about creating a network of more than one makerspaces or serving as the parent body for a group of makers around the world.
[h]added.
[i]Why add it now if it was never there before?
[j]Need to determine if this document covers DHMN, The Appleton Makerspace, or both.  Also up for debate is whether DHMN is a different entity than the Appleton Makerspace.
[k]The wording of Section 3 scope should be changed to reflect the fact that members of the Appleton Makerspace are not by default members of the DHMN. Some makerspace members may have no desire to be members of the DHMN, and there is no reason to force them to be. There may be value in making all members of the DHMN nominal members of the Appleton Makerspace. But the two organizations are not equivalent now and from Day One of the DHMN were not intended to be equivalent.
[l]A conversation with Shane Grey would be worthwhile and timely. This very topic was discussed at last night's 7/29/2015 Appleton Makerspace org meeting. Efforts should be combined!
[m]Might you suggest good way to combine efforts? You, Ross, Shane and I meet on a Thurs or Mon night at Makerspace?
[n]I'll send an email to the primary parties - hopefully to expand to more people.
[o]Please include Mark Nickel and Erin in your communications. Two of the DHMN cofounders.
[p]This seems redundant, and could be removed.
[q]Needs an update due to new definitions of membership.
[r]We need to follow this rule, or remove it.
[s]Agreed
[t]We appear to have added these responsibilities to the position without them actually being present in the bylaws.
[u]The words "sweat equity" were not in the bylaws, apparently.  I'm OK with the removal of these words, but they are in there because it is currently a common term in the organization.
[v]Does the vote have to be unanimous, or a simple majority?  There might be some tense moments if a 3-2 vote (with one abstention) kicks someone out of the space.  Tiebreakers should probably be covered here, as well, since I think we have 6 board members (Pres, VP, CTO, Treas, Secretary, Community Liaison).
[w]Does this still apply, given the names on our tax stuff don't match our current leadership?
[x]This is the only time that members are allowed to vote according to these bylaws.  The Board (and the org) acts more like a city council than a general election.  We can choose either to follow this convention, or change all verbiage to make everything a direct democracy (for better or for worse).
[y]Should there be any rules for moving treasurer responsibilities that are different than the other officer's rules?  I assume that we can't immediately change all of the account stuff.
[z]These changes are NOT by popular vote from members, only by the sitting board of directors.
[aa]Ross I have access.  This comment is to test how notification works.